PATERNITY LEAVE
For Male Employees

REPUBLIC ACT NO. 818
Paternity Leave is granted to all married male employees in the regardless of their employment status. The purpose of this benefit is to allow the husband to lend support to his wife during her period of recovery and/or in nursing her newborn child.

LEAVE BENEFIT:
-Paternity leave benefit shall apply to the first four (4) deliveries of the employee’s lawful wife with whom he is cohabiting. For this purpose, “cohabiting” means the obligation of the husband and wife to live together.
-The paternity leave shall not be more than SEVEN (7) calendar days, with full pay for each covered delivery.

CONDITIONS OF ENTITLEMENT:
A married male employee shall be entitled to paternity leave benefit provided that he has met the following conditions:
1. He is an employee at the time of the delivery of his child;
2. He is cohabiting with his spouse at the time that she gives birth or suffers a miscarriage;
3. He has applied for paternity leave with his employer within a reasonable period of time from the expected date of delivery by his pregnant spouse, or within such period as may be provided by company rules and regulations, and
4. His wife has given birth or suffered a miscarriage.


MANNER OF LEAVE USAGE:
May be enjoyed either continuous or in an intermittent manner by the employee after the delivery, without prejudice to 77GSI’s policy of allowing the employee to avail the benefit before or during childbirth or miscarriage of his legitimate spouse.
The leave shall be availed of not later than SIXTY (60) days after the date of the child's delivery.
The paternity leave of SEVEN (7)days shall be non-cumulative and strictly non-convertible to cash.


Maternity Allocation to the Father or Alternate caregiver under R.A No. 11210


What is allocation of maternity leave?
A  female worker entitled to maternity leave benefits may, at her option, allocate up to seven (7) days of said benefits to the child’s father, whether or not the same is married to the female worker. 
The allocated benefit granted to the child’s father under R.A. No. 11210 is over and above that which is provided under Republic Act No. 8187, or the “Paternity Leave Act of 1996”.
In case of death, absence, or incapacity of the child’s father, the female worker may allocate to an alternate caregiver who may be any of the following, upon the election of the mother taking into account the best interests of the child:
A relative within the fourth degree of consanguinity; or The current partner, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity, of the female worker sharing the same household.
The option to allocate maternity leave credits shall not be applicable in case the female worker suffers miscarriage or emergency termination of pregnancy. (Sec. 1,
Rule VIII of the IRR of R.A. No. 11210)


DOCUMENTS REQUIRED BY THE HR
-Initial/Before Leave
a.Leave Approval from Immediate Manager
b.Copy of Marriage Certificate
c.Proof of Pregnancy (eg. Ultrasound or any Medical Documents)

-Additional 7 days under EMLL (either of the following):
a.Allocation Form approved by SSS
b.Copy of Signed Maternity Notification Transmittal indicating the allocated leave.

-After Leave
a.Timesheet covering the Paternity Leave
b.Copy of Birth Certificate of Baby

